---
layout: post
title:      "It's happening! Watch out world!"
date:       2018-05-20 19:21:22 +0000
permalink:  its_happening_watch_out_world
---


I'm both in disbelief and also not surprised that I am now formally entering the world of programming. My early childhood up to my early 20's was defined by either sports or the arts. Born from immigrant Hispanic parents and raised in not the most ideal neighborhoods just didn't offer much exposure to the sciences, also I really had a knack when it came to martial arts and drawing. Naturally I leaned into both fields, by making some money and staying in shape with martial arts and studying art in college. Things were looking great I got accepted to a great art school, I had a girlfriend and I was in the best shape of my life. In a mere month everything turned around. My family's financial situation made it so that I could not rely on them when it came to needing help with college. Not able to get a loan myself basically made it impossible to start school and then my girlfriend starting following through on her plan to move to Colorado to open a business and be back with family. On top of that, I also dislocated my big toe, which would be the beginning stages of a chronic injury that would prevent me from working out for the next five years. Seeing everything change before my eyes I leapt at the chance to move to Colorado with my girlfriend and chart a new course towards who knows what.  I was driven by passion and a sense of newness in my life. 

Feeling a little beat up by what happened in my hometown of L.A., but also feeling the excitement of a huge move I decided to quickly find a job and spend the next few months making oil paintings and absorbing whatever information I could. The Internet proved to be a magical tool that could give you whatever information you wanted and somehow I surprisingly found myself researching scientific data about the origins of the universe. You got to understand that being Hispanic and living in Los Angeles during my youth meant you were most likely some sort of Christian. I was a Catholic alter boy for a decade and my parents were deeply involved in the religious community, so spirituality played a big role in my upbringing. Going back to topic, did you know that if you don't have any experience in physics and mathematics that it could be very difficult to understand scientific literature? I had spent my whole up to that point having people speak to me in metaphors about the origins and meaning of life.  So it wasn't satisfying to read about gravity in terms of apples or bowling balls on a mattress. I wanted to understand the data in its raw form. One thought led to another, I live in Boulder, Co, CU has a reputable physics program, and my girlfriend's father is an electrical engineer. Before I know it I'm marrying my girlfriend, studying physics and math, and working in an ultra-cold molecules physics lab. As far as we all knew at the time inside the vacuum of the lab's chamber was the coldest place in the universe.  

My life during this period was once again in equilibrium, I very much enjoyed my time in college studying about our world, building circuits, machining parts, working with lasers, etc.  Life is amazing and it is always pushing us to adapt in ways that are unexpected. My little bubble in college soon met reality and the circumstances I found myself in eventually made me ask myself, can I balance my full-time job, full-time school, family life and general adult responsibilities? Also my wife was in medical school, making the whole journey feel exceptionally lonely. A few years of college proved that the answer was no. As the course work grew in complexity, my anxiety and depression grew reaching a tipping point that forced me to take a break from college, while also allowing my wife to plan her next important step outside of medical school and into residency. San Francisco Bay Area here we come. 

It was thrilling to be back in California after being gone for almost ten years. It wasn't Los Angeles, but it still felt like the move that made most sense. While my wife was busy expanding her career I continued my love of physics and math on my own trying letting the information percolate in my brain. During this time my injury from way back had finally subsided allowing me to tolerate working out and inspiring me to paint again. What is wrong with me that I keep flip-flopping, I just want to find my place in life not in a constant state of searching. Either way I got back in shape, better shape! Became an expert martial artist with multiple black belts painted elaborate paintings that were showcased in galleries and digital magazines in San Francisco, and learned basic HTML and CSS to run my websites. My wife and I even moved back to Los Angeles after her residency to be back on my playing field. This time however we had a child, now he's three years old. 

What I'm about to say next will cause some debate since we still have so much to learn about our mind and perception. As I mentioned before I struggled to lock down on a path that worked for me. I always felt like I was switching gears too often, I know I'm not special when it comes to this but hear me out. My experience of school in my youth and college was not great. It was very difficult to retain information even if I wanted to. I could go from being the best student in my college math and physics courses to the worst, and reading was hard. Very hard. I mean I would have to read a page in it's entirety multiple times to understand what the author was saying and I'm not talking about scientific literature. At first I didn't think anything of this I figured other people had this problem too and they just figured a way to deal with it. Soon, however, I realized that while I shared similar problems with other students the magnitude of my problem was abnormally higher. Being aware of this made me fearful of life, feeling like I was not in control of myself. My wife being a psychiatrist noticed a pattern, but was hesitant to make the claim. She wasn't quite a believer in it until she observed my behavior. Obviously I'm talking about ADHD. Media has done a good job of confusing the public making the discussion surrounding the topic reduced to "Oh everyone has that" or "Just work harder". Much of my life has involved having to work hard, so working harder is not the problem. Turned out Stanford has a leading ADHD research department with up to date information and discussion as to what ADHD is.  So begins the current stage of my life.

At Stanford they had me take an approximately four hour examination that tested my executive function, memory related to auditory and visual processes, family history, trauma, the whole gamut. It was pretty mentally draining. The results eventually came back and so I went back to have them interpret the data. I scored very poorly in the executive function section. All I had to do was press a button when an image appeared on a screen, which had a random tempo making it challenging to perform specifically when the tempo would speed up or slow down. I also scored poorly when it came to holding information if they were read out to me or written down. Despite this I scored extremely high visually. I could immediately discover patterns, point out the tiniest of details, and memorize things better if it was a picture. This is probably why I enjoyed building 500-1000 piece puzzles without looking at the box. I was also told that people who actually have ADHD tend to gravitate toward visual arts and sports. My life finally made sense, although I was sort of in denial about it at first. I had to do a little more research before I really embraced that narrative. I read and listened to talks about how ADHD is not a problem, but a necessary tool in this world that has an evolutionary purpose related to survival and our understanding of it is related to our knowledge of perception. It's not a problem of the ability to focus, in fact people who have legitimate ADHD are able to hyper focus it's just that we can't control what we focus on. This is what allowed me to embrace the narrative and allow me to piece my life together in a more functional way.

Ready to move beyond martial arts and art I looked at my options. I could go back to college and finish while simultaneously adding more debt and taking longer to get into the workforce or I could find a training for something that I enjoy that can get me out into the workforce as soon as possible while offering more long term stability. I mean, I have a three year old I need to move fast. Reading, reading, reading, I come across software engineers as an option. I think to myself I really enjoyed coding when I worked in the lab, so I did Flatiron School's pre-bootcamp course and sure enough I loved it and here I am. Surprised, but not surprised.

