---
layout: post
title:      "**Test Your Might!! My first CLI gem project.**"
date:       2018-06-07 17:29:01 +0000
permalink:  test_your_might_my_first_cli_gem_project
---


Well I did it. I completed my first project, a CLI gem. It was quite exciting to see the result come together. I was watching something come to life. A sense of ownership and beauty overcame me and towards the end I almost didn't want it to end, but thankful that it has. Also it's kind of hard to write code when you have a three-year-old constantly asking you questions about what you are doing and trying to aggressively insert himself onto the computer in order to mimic what I'm doing. Very cute, but hard. 

Much of my experience in life has revolved around art. Even though I'm not really immersed in that world anymore I still have images that run through my head and in an effort to nurture my creative side I follow the images and see where they take me. For an artist one of hardest things is an empty canvas. The artist has to make a choice to disturb the perfection and infinite possibilities that is an empty canvas so as to bring something into this world. Similarly, looking at a completely empty lab on my learn lab was frightening, exciting, and full of possibility. I even relied on my old painting habits before starting a painting. Read everything relevant about what you trying to do, experiment on something else first, maybe a sketch on paper or Photoshop. With that in mind the first step I realized was to get familiar and comfortable with using github and installing my bundle. I mean that's where the world gets to see you. This was surprisingly time consuming, but I can say with confidence that I now understand github and how to properly setup bundler. I experimented over and over again creating and deleting repositories and bundles to see what kind of errors I may be walking into the future. It proved fruitful as I would have definitely had issues later and would have resulted in starting over. 

Success!! I can now commit, retrieve, and push from github with absolute confidence. Now I am ready to get started, but I still have no code, just files with pre-entered data and code from the install. Thus, back to reading forums, watching learn walkthroughs, and provided resources. That being said, the first three days were spent just reading and watching how to plot out my assignment, create deadlines, and most importantly making sure I learn my material. Much of the lessons on learn before this project have felt like I was learning to quickly. How could any of this information stay in my head? So I made it my mission to take my time with the project and test everything that I know. In order to showcase what I have learned so far I decided to pick a theme that I am well versed in so I could test my skill in coding without limitations from my theme. If you read my previous post you would know that is martial arts. Suddenly everything clicked and I was confident enough to start. 

**Here's the summary for my project:**
This Ruby Gem provides a CLI to view the world's most popular martial arts taken from www.singpatong-sitnumnoi.com; Users can also learn more information about the style (wikipedia-website, description, name, country, fighting-focus) using information from the style's wikipedia webpage. Styles, can be searched by country, or fighting-focus. I have also added code to collect incomplete data from the scrape if one has the desire to add code to retrieve it.

We were warned that scraping data from website can be excruciatingly tedious and difficult, and boy were they right. I started writing my code from the user interface and then working inward. This wasn't that bad, it was just a matter of filling in and creating pseudo information to make the interface respond properly to the user request. When I got to the scrape portion that's when my brain started folding in on itself. This section took about another couple of days testing different ways to retrieve the martial arts style information. I really started to fall in love with the project when I was finally able to get the majority of the information from Wikipedia. This is happening!!

Ok, so everything is working but it is so hard to read any of it on my screen. Code and the interface. From here I decided to start refactoring so that I could locate holes in my logic. Commiting, refectoring, commiting, refactoring - I was in the zone. The project's code was way more readable, but the interface was still just a long list of multiple lists bleeding one right into the other. Should I create a sort of box to house each list so the user could tell where they were or should I use color? The artist in me took over and color was the winner. Oh man, did that make a difference. It not only made it legible but also added to the user experience of the application. Liking what I saw I let my artistic side take over. I made an intro and outro that I believe really pulled the whole application together, even though I didn't need to do that to finish the project. After some finishing touches to my code, making everything presentable for a first version I decided this was a good place to stop. I was proud of what I had made and I now needed to work on my video walkthrough.


Still feeling the rush from having combined all my interest into one project (Art, Martial Arts, and Logic), I felt that I needed, or should I say wanted, to have the video be a continuation of the experience of my app. I added some fun dragon ball z images and text to explain how a user would interact with my app, and completed the video within a couple of days. Now I am writing this blog to share with you my excitement of this whole process. Through painting, I have built my share of large worlds outside of coding. I once spent four years creating a hyper realistic painting that was made with a brush as thin as a hair follicle. However, this was the first time I felt such complexity and union of my many disciplines to build something. Basically it was a rush and it makes me feel like I'm on the right path. Later today I will submit my project for review and hopefully all goes well. 

Thanks for listening, and they'll be more posts in the future so make sure to come back.

